# GET NED BALLAVANCE COURSE ON HCP TERRAFORM TO LEARN MORE


<!-- Introducing HCP Terraform -->
As you may have already noticed, automating IaC is distinctly different from traditional software development automation. We were able to build out a custom process through a bunch of workflows in GitHub Actions, store our credentials in GitHub secrets, and leverage S3 for our backend. That was all for a single configuration, and we would have to repeat that setup for each additional configuration. What if instead of building and maintaining it all ourselves, we could leverage a service? That's what we'll explore in this module. HashiCorp recognized early on that Terraform Community Edition is not a complete solution. It doesn't manage state, it doesn't have access controls, and it doesn't track the job history of all of your runs. And so they created HCP Terraform, adding a bunch of bells and whistles that aren't included in Terraform Community. HashiCorp wasn't the only one to realize this, and I should point out that there are other IaC automation platforms out there. They all have the same basic features and functionality, and I selected HCP Terraform partly because it's from HashiCorp and partly because it's on the Terraform Associate exam. There are actually two paid versions of Terraform. HCP Terraform is a SaaS offering that's hosted by HashiCorp. If you work for an organization that cannot or does not want to use SaaS products, then you can use Terraform Enterprise. It is feature‑equivalent to HCP Terraform, but you host and manage the software yourself. I'll refer to both collectively as HCP Terraform from here on out, but just remember that there are two available editions. Now, what are the features offered by HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise? For starters, HCP Terraform manages your state data for you. It stores the state data in a persistent remote backend that is encrypted at rest and in transit, and it has access controls applied to restrict who can view or edit the state data. The platform also has workflow automation built in, along with remote agents to execute your runs. The agents can be hosted by HashiCorp or you can manage your own. The input variable values for your runs can also be hosted on the platform, and they can be set at multiple levels with inheritance. HTP Terraform also includes a private registry for hosting providers and modules as an alternative to using the public registry. You can also include policy as code scans in your workflow using either HashiCorp Sentinel or Open Policy Agent for your policy framework. And lastly, the platform supports the use of role‑based access controls to restrict permissions to all of these different features. There's much more to the platform than just these features. I have a whole course on HTP Terraform if that's of interest to you, but these are the major highlights.

<!-- HCP Terraform Workspaces -->
As I just mentioned, HTP Terraform has workflow automation built in. The core unit of work on the platform is the workspace. These are similar to the Community Edition workspaces in the sense that each workspace has its own instance of state data linked to a root module. Each workspace brings together an instance of Terraform code, a real managed environment, and state data to link the two together. HCP Terraform workspaces add in additional features, including state data storage, access controls, automation, version control system integration, tracking of run history, and input variable value storage. These are all components that are missing in the Community Edition of workspaces. On the platform, things are organized in a hierarchy, starting with the organization at the top. Below the organization, you have projects. And within projects, you have workspaces. All workspaces on the platform need to be associated with a project. You can configure settings at the organization or project level, and the settings will be inherited by the workspaces. That includes setting permissions, input variable values, and Sentinel or Open Policy Agent policies. When it comes to the automation workflow, workspaces support three different options. The CLI workflow most closely matches how you might work with Terraform today. You update the configuration to use HCP Terraform as a cloud back end, and then you run your commands from the terminal, just like you did before adding automation. The VCS workflow ties into a version control software provider like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Azure Repos. Just like the automation we created with GitHub Actions, it can monitor commits to a selected branch, pull requests, and release tags, and trigger a run when one of those events occurs. The last workflow type is API‑driven, and it's used for integrating with other automation solutions. This is typically used when you want the workflow to be triggered by some other automation system or orchestrator. Based on the automation we've built so far, the VCS workflow probably makes the most sense.

<!-- Migrating to HCP Terraform -->
Globomantics is looking to adopt HCP Terraform as their IaC automation platform of choice. You need to help plan out the migration strategy from GitHub Actions. Let's take a look at our workflow at the moment and see how HCP Terraform fits in. In our current workflow, changes are made locally on a new feature branch and then validated with pre‑commit hooks. Once the code is committed, it is pushed up to the GitHub repo, and a pull request is created. This kicks off the CI workflow, and it does a bunch of validation and then runs a Terraform plan against each environment to view the proposed changes. It's the plan portion of things where HTP Terraform can step in. With the VCS integration, each workspace can kick off a speculative run when a PR is created or updated. We probably still want to do all the code validation, and we can leverage GitHub Actions for that. But the speculative plans, those can be part of HCP Terraform. After the CI workflow is complete, we review the proposed changes and merge the PR if we approve. That kicks off the CD pipeline, which starts a deployment run for dev. If that deployment is successful, it can kick off a deployment run for staging. We can use HCP Terraform to completely replace this workflow. Lastly, once dev and staging are vetted, we cut a release tag, which triggers the release workflow to do a deployment to both production environments. We can also use HCP Terraform to replace this entire workflow. There are two other workflows we added, the manual_deploy and manual_destroy. The good news is that workspaces have this functionality already built in. We can simply retire these two workflows. Our plan so far is to replace the plan phase in the CI workflow, replace the CD workflow entirely, replace the release workflow, and remove those two manual workflows. What about our credentials and variable values? Right now we're using shared credentials for all the environments, so we can configure those at the project level. For the input variable values, we'll need to migrate the settings from our tfvars files to each workspace. If there are some common settings, we could set those at the project level. Lastly, Globomantics has a default tags policy for VPCs they'd like to apply with Sentinel. We can integrate that into all of our runs by setting it at the project level. This plan sounds pretty good, so let's get cracking.

